have you ever heard the sound of frogs
calling at night for hundreds of
millions of years this croaking lullaby
has filled the nighttime air but recent
studies suggest that these frogs are in
danger of playing their final note over
the past few decades amphibian
populations have been rapidly
disappearing worldwide nearly 1/3 of the
world's amphibian species are in danger
of extinction and over 100 species have
already disappeared but don't worry
there's still hope before we get into
how to save the frogs let's start by
taking a look at why they're
disappearing and why it's important to
keep them around habitat destruction is
the number one problem for frog
populations around the world there are 7
billion humans on the planet and we
compete with frogs for habitat we build
cities suburbs and farms on top of frog
habitat and chop forests and drain the
wetlands that serve as home for numerous
amphibian populations climate change
alters precipitation levels drying up
ponds streams and cloud forests as the
Earth's human population continues to
grow so will the threats amphibians face
there are a variety of other factors
contributing to the frogs decline over
harvesting for the pet and food trade
results in millions of frogs being taken
out of the wild each year invasive
species such as non-native trout and
crayfish eat native frogs humans are
facilitating the spread of infectious
diseases by shipping over a hundred
million amphibians around the world each
year for uses food
pets bait and in laboratories and zoos
with few regulations or quarantines one
of these diseases chytridiomycosis has
driven stream dwelling amphibian
populations to extinction in Africa
Australia Europe and North Central and
South America on top of all these
problems we had hundreds of millions of
kilograms of pesticides to our
ecosystems each year and these chemicals
are easily absorbed through amphibians
permeable skin causing immunosuppression
or a weakened immune system and
developmental deformities ok so why are
these little green guys worth keeping
around frogs are important for a
multitude of reasons they're an integral
part of the food web eating flies ticks
mosquitoes
and other disease vectors thus
protecting us against malaria dengue
fever and other illnesses tadpoles keep
waterways clean by feeding on algae
reducing the demand on our communities
filtration systems and keeping our cost
of water low frogs serve as a source of
food for birds fish snakes dragonflies
and even monkeys when frogs disappear
the food web is disturbed and other
animals can disappear as well amphibians
are also extremely important in human
medicine over 10 percent of the Nobel
Prizes in Physiology and medicine have
gone to researchers whose work depended
on amphibians some of the antimicrobial
peptides on frog's skin can kill HIV
some act as painkillers and others serve
as natural mosquito repellents many
discoveries await us if we can save the
frogs but when a frog species disappears
so does any promise it holds for
improving human health fortunately there
are lots of ways you can help and the
best place to start is by improving your
ecological footprint and day to day
actions the next time you listen to that
nighttime lullaby don't think of it as
just another background noise hear it as
a call for help
sung imperfect croaking harmony
Oh